<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="getting_started">
    <title>Getting Started</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="introduction">
        <title>Introduction</title>
        <body>
            <p>Phon is a software program that supports the building of textual and phonological
                data corpora. While it was originally created to support the study of child language
                development, Phon can be used across virtually all types of corpus studies (e.g.
                textual, phonological, acoustic, clinical) based on child or adult language data.
                Among other features, Phon offers specialized support for research on phonological
                units (e.g. phones, phonological features, stress, tones) and includes some
                specialized functions for clinical speech analysis. Phon also incorporates <xref
                    href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/" format="html" scope="external"
                    >Praat</xref> functions for acoustic data analysis.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="new_features">
        <title>New Features in Phon 3</title>
        <body/>
        <topic id="revamped_query_and_reporting_systems">
            <title>Revamped query and reporting systems</title>
            <body>
                <p>Phon 3 combines brand new approaches to data query, analysis and reporting with a
                    more uniform, streamlined interface across virtually every aspect of the
                    application. At the level of the query and reporting system, we have continued
                    to expand the Phonex language in ways that add both power and flexibility for
                    data analysis. The reports generated from data queries can also be personalized
                    using the new Report Composer, a new interface to build reports after running a
                    query.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="built_in_analyses">
            <title>Built-in analyses</title>
            <body>
                <p>New within Phon 3 is a set of ready-to-use analyses geared toward clinical
                    analyses of speech sound disorders as well as other general reports on
                    phonological performance that can be used to obtain ready assessments of
                    phonological performance. These analyses are intuitively grouped within the new
                    "Analysis" menu option.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="the_analysis_composer">
            <title>The Analysis Composer</title>
            <body>
                <p>Phon users can utilize the Analysis Composer to combine pre-defined queries and
                    analyses and assemble uniform reports on different aspects of linguistic,
                    phonological or acoustic patterns. Using this system, students, researchers, and
                    clinicians can obtain ready data classifications useful both for research and
                    for the diagnosis of speech disorders.</p>
                <p>All results extracted from Phon queries and analyses can now be saved in
                    print-ready HTML format, CSV, and Excel workbooks. The reports generated by Phon
                    offer ‘hot’ links between query/analysis results and Phon data. The user can
                    click on these links to automatically open the transcript data that correspond
                    to these results, which greatly facilitates validation or verification tasks:
                    each individual token reported through a data query or analysis is only a click
                    away from each place where it appears within query and analysis reports.</p>
                <p>Finally, Phon 3 comes with multiple improvements in the areas of
                    workspace/project management (e.g. support for multiple workspace folders), data
                    transcription (e.g. new IPA and transliteration dictionaries; syllabification
                    algorithms for additional languages), improved phone alignment, more robust
                    methods to generate, import, and edit TextGrid data, and additional functions
                    for acoustic analysis (e.g. Spectral moments; VOT analysis).</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="download_phon">
        <title>Download Phon</title>
        <body/>
        <topic id="phon_current">
            <title>Phon 3.3.1</title>
            <body>
                <ul>
                    <li><p><xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1/Phon_macos_3_3_1.dmg"
                                format="dmg" scope="external">macOS 10.9+ (dmg)</xref></p></li>
                    <li><p><xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1/Phon_windows-x64_3_3_1.exe"
                                format="exe" scope="external">Windows (64-bit) (installer)</xref> |
                                <xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1/Phon_windows-x64_3_3_1.zip"
                                format="zip" scope="external">Windows (64 bit) (zip)</xref></p></li>
                </ul>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="phon_beta">
            <title>Phon 3.3.1-beta.2</title>
            <body>
                <ul>
                    <li><p><xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1-beta.2/Phon_macos_3_3_1-beta_2.dmg"
                                format="dmg" scope="external">macOS 10.9+ (dmg)</xref></p></li>
                    <li><p><xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1-beta.2/Phon_windows-x64_3_3_1-beta_2.exe"
                                format="exe" scope="external">Windows (64-bit) (installer)</xref> |
                                <xref
                                href="https://github.com/phon-ca/phon/releases/download/3.3.1-beta.2/Phon_windows-x64_3_3_1-beta_2.zip"
                                format="zip" scope="external">Windows (64 bit) (zip)</xref></p></li>
                </ul>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="other_information">
        <title>Other Information</title>
        <body>
            <ul>
                <li><b><xref href="tutorials.dita"/></b></li>
                <li><p><b><xref href="https://github.com/phon-ca/PhonDemoProject/archive/1.zip"
                                format="zip" scope="external">Demo Project</xref></b></p><ul>
                        <li><p><xref href="https://github.com/phon-ca/PhonDemoProject" format="html"
                                    scope="external">README for Demo Project</xref></p></li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="citing_phon">
        <title>Citing Phon</title>
        <body>
            <p>Hedlund, Gregory &amp; Yvan Rose. 2020. Phon 3.1 [Computer Software]. Retrieved from
                    ​<xref href="https://phon.ca" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://phon.ca</xref>.</p>
            <p>Rose, Yvan &amp; Brian MacWhinney. 2014. The <xref
                    href="http://phonbank.talkbank.org" format="html" scope="external"
                    >PhonBank</xref> Project: Data and Software-Assisted Methods for the Study of
                Phonology and Phonological Development. In Jacques Durand, Ulrike Gut &amp; Gjert
                Kristoffersen (eds.),  <i>The Oxford Handbook of Corpus Phonology</i>. Oxford:
                Oxford University Press. 308-401.</p>
            <p>Rose, Yvan, Brian MacWhinney, Rodrigue Byrne, Gregory Hedlund, Keith Maddocks, Philip
                O’Brien &amp; Todd Wareham. 2006. Introducing Phon: A Software Solution for the
                Study of Phonological Acquisition. In David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia &amp;
                Colleen Zaller (eds.), <i>Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University
                    Conference on Language Development</i>. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
                489-500.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="discussion_group_support">
        <title>Discussion group &amp; Support</title>
        <body>
            <p>We encourage you to subscribe to the discussion group for helpful information and
                technical support. Please click on the following link to request membership to the
                    <xref href="http://phonbank.talkbank.org" format="html" scope="external"
                    >PhonBank</xref> (or other TalkBank-related) discussion group:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><p><xref href="http://talkbank.org/share/email.html" format="html"
                            scope="external"/></p><ul>
                        <li><p>No Google mail (gmail) account is required to subscribe</p></li>
                        <li><p>Group’s email address (for message posting): <xref
                                    href="mailto:phon@googlegroups.com" format="email"
                                    scope="external">phon@googlegroups.com</xref></p></li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="acknowledgments">
        <title>Acknowledgments</title>
        <body>
            <p><b>Funding</b>: Current development of Phon and <xref
                    href="http://phonbank.talkbank.org" format="html" scope="external"
                    >PhonBank</xref> is supported by the National Institutes of Health. Earlier
                development of Phon was funded by grants from National Science Foundation, Canada
                Fund for Innovation, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada,
                Petro-Canada Fund for Young Innovators, and the Office of the Vice-President
                (Research) and the Faculty of Arts at Memorial University of Newfoundland.</p>
            <p><b>Dictionaries</b>: Built-in dictionaries of pronounced forms were obtained from
                generous organizations and people, to whom we are indebted:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><p>Catalan: Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya <xref href="http://www.upc.es/"
                            format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Dutch (Flemish): Fonilex Database <xref
                            href="http://bach.arts.kuleuven.be/fonilex/" format="html"
                            scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>English (British): Cambridge University Engineering Department,Cambridge,UK
                            <xref
                            href="http://svr-www.eng.cam.ac.uk/comp.speech/Section1/Lexical/beep.html"
                            format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>English (North American): CMU Pronouncing Dictionary (Speech at CMU) <xref
                            href="http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/speech/" format="html"
                            scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>French: Lexique Database <xref href="http://www.lexique.org/" format="html"
                            scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>German: Universität Bonn <xref
                            href="http://www.sk.uni-bonn.de/forschung/phonetik/sprachsynthese/bomp"
                            format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Icelandic: The Icelandic Centre for Language Technology <xref
                            href="http://www.tungutaekni.is/materials/e001.html" format="html"
                            scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Italian: ISTC-SPFD CNR, Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie della Cognizione
                            <xref href="http://www2.pd.istc.cnr.it/FESTIVAL/home/default.htm"
                            format="htm" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Norwegian: Norwegian Computational Lexicon (NorKompLeks), Institutt for språk
                        og litteratur, Norges teknisk-naturvitenskapelige universitet <xref
                            href="https://www.ntnu.no/isl" format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Spanish (Spain): Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya <xref
                            href="http://www.upc.es/" format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
                <li><p>Spanish (Latin America): Scott Sadowsky <xref href="http://sadowsky.cl/"
                            format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
            </ul>
            <p><b>Special thanks</b>: While it is impossible to name everyone who ended up being
                involved in one way or another in this project, we owe special thanks to a wonderful
                group of early adopters and beta testers, students and researchers alike, without
                whom it would have been much more difficult to produce the current software program.
                We are also grateful to Paul Boersma for this tremendous collaboration toward the
                interactions between Praat and related functions within Phon 2.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
