<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="syllable_matcher">
    <title>Syllable Matcher</title>
    <body>
        <p>The syllable matcher, denoted by the small character sigma <codeph>σ</codeph> (Unicode
            character U+03C3), will match a syllable, or the remainder of a syllable. IPA
            transcripts must be correctly syllabified (see <xref
                href="session_editor/syllabification_and_alignment_view.dita"/>) for this matcher to
            work correctly. To type the syllable matcher in expressions use the autocomplete feature
            available by pressing <userinput>Tab</userinput> inside phonex input fields.</p>
        <p>A range of syllable constituent types may be specified to restrict the portion of the
            syllable potentially matched. The range of constituent types is specified using the
            following syntax:<codeblock>σ/X..Y/</codeblock>Where <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i> are single
            character constituent type ids from the list:<ul id="ul_inl_b1y_xrb">
                <li><codeph>S</codeph> - syllable stress</li>
                <li><codeph>L</codeph> - left appendix</li>
                <li><codeph>O</codeph> - onset (include OEHS)</li>
                <li><codeph>N</codeph> - nucleus</li>
                <li><codeph>C</codeph> - coda</li>
                <li><codeph>R</codeph> - right appendix</li>
            </ul>Including a constituent type in the range does not necessarily mean that the
            matched portion or the transcript must include that constituent type.</p>
        <p>Examples:<ul id="ul_n2j_5xx_xrb">
                <li>Match a single syllable (including stress):<codeblock>σ</codeblock></li>
                <li>Match one or more syllables (any word):<codeblock>σ+</codeblock></li>
                <li>Use bounded quantifiers to match words of specific, minimium or maximum
                    length:<codeblock>σ&lt;2,3></codeblock></li>
                <li>Match a poriton of a syllable from the onset to the nucleus (do not include
                    stress). Both the onset and nucleus characters are optional (may not exist in
                    the syllable.)<codeblock>σ/O..N/</codeblock></li>
                <li>Match a syllable which begins with one or more onsets, here the syllable matcher
                    takes on the 'remainder of' action and will match all phones from the syllable
                    rhyme.<codeblock>\c:O+σ</codeblock></li>
                <li>Match a syllable which ends with one or more codas. This demonstrates the use of
                    constituent range to match a portion of the syllable starting with the stress
                    marker and ending with the nucleus:<codeblock>σ/S..N/\c:C+</codeblock></li>
                <li>Supplementary matcher may be applied to the syllable matcher. For example,
                    stress matching may be used to query word shape such as in the following example
                    which will query any word with initial primary
                    stress:<codeblock>σ!1 σ!U+</codeblock></li>
            </ul></p>
    </body>
</topic>
