<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_51v_4vv_4g">
 <title>Phone</title> <conbody>
  <p>Phones are the main unit of an IPA transcription. They are composed of a vowel or consonant (or
    <i>base glyph</i>) along with optional diacritics. Diacritics are of the following types: prefix
   (e.g., pre-nasalization), combining (e.g., devoicing), length, suffix (e.g., aspiration), and
   tone. The following sections outline each part of a single Phone.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Prefix Diacritic</title>
   <p>A prefix diacritic must appear before the base glyph.  A phone may have multiple prefix
    diacritics.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Base Glyph</title>
   <p>The base glyph can be any IPA vowel or consonant.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Combining Diacritic</title>
   <p>Combining diacritics must appear directly after the base glyph; any number of combining
    diacritics may be used.  Combining diacritics may also be added to prefix and suffix
    diacritics.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Length</title>
   <p>Phone length is indicated using character 0x02D0 (long) and 0x02D1 (half-long.)  Length
    diacritics must appear after the phone to which they belong.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Suffix Diacritic</title>
   <p>A suffix diacritic must appear after the base glyph.  A phone may have multiple suffix
    diacritics.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Tone</title>
   <p>Tone diacritics (such as upstep or tone numbers) must appear as the last element in a phone.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <note>Please consult  for a list of possible IPA elements and their character types.</note>
   <table id="table_dyv_gxz_pg">
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Some Possible Phones</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry>t̪ʰ</entry>
       <entry>Aspirated dental [t]</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>aːːː¹</entry>
       <entry>Triple-long [a], Tone 1</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>ⁿd</entry>
       <entry>Prenasalised [d]</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>ᵐṳ̀</entry>
       <entry>Prenasalised, breathy voiced [u], with combining diacritic low tone</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
  </section>
  
 </conbody>
 <related-links>
  <link href="../generated/ipa.xml#concept_ipa_listing"/>
 </related-links>
</concept>
