<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="edit_preferences">
    <title>Preferences</title>
    <shortdesc>Change <i>Phon</i> preferences.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <ol>
            <li>
                <p>From any <i>Phon</i> window, choose the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> (<userinput>CMD/CTRL+,</userinput>) menu item, or from the
                        <wintitle>Workspace</wintitle> window, click the <uicontrol>Edit
                        Preferences</uicontrol> button in the <uicontrol>Other Actions</uicontrol>
                    pane.</p>
                <itemgroup>The <wintitle>Preferences</wintitle> dialog will appear.</itemgroup>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>From the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab of the
                        <wintitle>Preferences</wintitle> dialog, choose whether to <uicontrol>Check
                        for updates when application starts</uicontrol> using the check box. You may
                    also choose to re-enable any disabled information messages in the Phon interface
                    by clicking <uicontrol>Reset Information Messages</uicontrol>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>From the <uicontrol>Session Editor</uicontrol> tab, you may change the settings
                    for <i>Dictionary Language</i>, <i>Syllabifier Language</i>, and <i>Autosave
                        Sessions</i> as you see fit.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>From the <uicontrol>Media</uicontrol> tab, specify any global media folders you
                    wish to use</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>From the <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol> tab, change font sizes or options for
                    different fields.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>When you are finished editing preferences, simply close the
                        <wintitle>Preferences</wintitle> dialog. If a session was already open
                    before the preferences were changed, close and reopen that session in order to
                    implement the changes. </p>
            </li>
        </ol>
    </body>
</topic>
