<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="concept_uwj_cnx_qp">
 <title>Formant Settings</title>
 <shortdesc>Settings for Formant analysis.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <source>http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Formant__burg____.html</source>
 </prolog>
 <refbody><section><p>Adapted from <xref
    href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Formant__burg____.html" format="html"
    scope="external"/></p><p>The <wintitle>Formant settings</wintitle> window can be opened by choosing <uicontrol>Formant
    settings...</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Praat</uicontrol> menu in the <uicontrol>Speech
    Analysis</uicontrol> view of the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window.</p><p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Time step (s)</b></dt>
     <dd> the time between the centres of consecutive analysis frames. If the sound is 2 seconds
      long, and the time step is 0.01 seconds, there will be approximately 200 analysis frames.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Maximum number of formants</b></dt>
     <dd> for most analyses of human speech, you will want to extract 5 formants per frame. This, in
      combination with the <b>Maximum formant</b> setting, is the only way in which this procedure
      will give you results compatible with how people tend to interpret formants for vowels, i.e.
      in terms of vowel height (F1) and vowel place (F2). Otherwise, the <b>Maximum number of
       formants</b> can be any multiple of 0.5, you can choose 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, and so on.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Maximum formant (Hz)</b></dt>
     <dd> the ceiling of the formant search range, in hertz. It is crucial that you set this to a
      value suitable for your speaker. The standard value of 5500 Hz is suitable for an average
      adult female. For a male, use 5000 Hz; if you use 5500 Hz for an adult male, you may end up
      with too few formants in the low frequency region, e.g. analysing an [u] as having a single
      formant near 500 Hz whereas you want two formants at 300 and 600 Hz. For a young child, use a
      value much higher than 5500 Hz, for instance 8000 Hz (experiment with it on steady vowels).
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Window length (s)</b></dt>
     <dd> the effective duration of the analysis window, in seconds. The actual length is twice this
      value, because Praat uses a Gaussian-like analysis window with sidelobes below -120 dB. For
      instance, if the <b>Window length</b> is 0.025 seconds, the actual Gaussian window duration is
      0.050 seconds. This window has values below 4% outside the central 0.025 seconds, and its
      frequency resolution (-3 dB point) is 1.298 / (0.025 s) = 51.9 Hz, as computed with the
      formula given at <xref
       href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Spectrogram___.html" format="html"
       scope="external">Sound: To Spectrogram...</xref>. This is comparable to the bandwidth of a
      Hamming window of 0.025 seconds, which is 1.303 / (0.025 s) = 52.1 Hz, but that window (which
      is the window most often used in other analysis programs) has three spectral lobes of about
      -42 dB on each side. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Pre-emphasis from (Hz)</b></dt>
     <dd> the +3 dB point for an inverted low-pass filter with a slope of +6 dB/octave. If this
      value is 50 Hz, then frequencies below 50 Hz are not enhanced, frequencies around 100 Hz are
      amplified by 6 dB, frequencies around 200 Hz are amplified by 12 dB, and so forth. The point
      of this is that vowel spectra tend to fall by 6 dB per octave; the pre-emphasis creates a
      flatter spectrum, which is better for formant analysis because we want our formants to match
      the local peaks, not the global spectral slope.</dd>
    </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
       <dt><b>Dot size</b></dt>
       <dd> Size of formant dots in the display.  Use increments of .5 (e.g., 1.5, 2, 2.5,
            etc.).</dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p><p>Settings for formant listings:</p><dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Include num formants</dt>
        <dd>Include number of formants column</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Include intensity</dt>
        <dd>Include intensity column</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Include bandwidths</dt>
        <dd>Include a bandwidth column for each formant</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl></section></refbody>
</reference>
