<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="conceptId">
    <title>Blind Transcription</title>
    <body>
        <p>Due to the subjective nature of phonetic transcription (where measurement and
            verification of all relevant segments may not be feasible), Phon has a built-in system
            for performing multiple-blind transcriptions.</p>
        <p>In a multiple-blind transcription process, records are transcribed by any number of
            separate users, who do not see each other's transcriptions. These separate
            transcriptions may then be resolved by an objective party, who can choose one over the
            other or compare them to reach a consensus transcription.</p>
        <p>A typical example of multiple-blind transcription in Phon may proceed as follows:</p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_eii_kfb_vc">
                <li>Two users perform separate blind transcriptions of all records in one session
                    (see <xref href="../project_manager/sessions.dita#open_session_blind"/> for instructions).</li>
                <li>A team of two different users review both sets of blind transcriptions together,
                    while listening to each record.</li>
                <li>For each record, this team does one of three things:<ul id="ul_jym_egb_vc">
                        <li>chooses the best of the two transcriptions</li>
                        <li>combines both transcriptions to reach a consensus</li>
                        <li>creates an alternate transcription which they agree upon (in extreme
                            cases in which both blind transcriptions seem to be in error).</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p>The transcription which is settled upon is entered into the <uicontrol>IPA
                Target</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>IPA Actual</uicontrol> field, and can be analyzed
            accordingly by project researchers, who will now have access to the best and most
            objective transcriptions possible. See <xref href="ipa_validation_view.dita"/> for
            instructions on validating IPA Transcriptions. See also the<xref
                href="inter_transcriber_reliability.dita">inter-transcriber reliability</xref>
            report which provides several metrics of agreement between blind transcribers in a Phon
            session.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
