<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="inter_transcriber_reliability">
    <title>Inter-transcriber Reliability</title>
    <shortdesc>The inter-transcriber reliability report provides several metrics of agreement
        between blind transcribers in a Phon session. </shortdesc>
    <topic id="topic_th3_1rj_vnb">
        <title>Usage</title>
        <body>
            <p>To open the inter-transcriber reliability wizard select <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Inter-transcriber Reliability</uicontrol>
                </menucascade> from the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window menu. The menu
                item will be disabled if the editor is in <keyword>blind mode</keyword> or there are
                less than two transcribers for the session.</p>
            <p>INSERT SCREENSHOT</p>
            <p>The first step of the wizard allows selection of domain for comparison (group or
                word), the transcribers for comparison, and which metrics will be included. Standard
                options for ignoring diacritics are also available. After clicking
                    <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> a HTML report is produced as described below and
                displayed as the last step of the wizard. Options to save the report and export
                report tables will be available from the toolbar and context menu.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="report">
        <title>Report Outline</title>
        <body>
            <p>A table will be produced for each pair of selected transcribers. For each row of the
                table, which corresponds to a group/word in the session, the following items will be
                calculated (<i>t1</i> is the transcript for transcriber 1, <i>t2</i> is the
                transcript for transcriber 2):<ul id="ul_dqk_sqj_vnb">
                    <li><i><keyword>Levenshtein Distance</keyword></i><p>Levenshtein Distance
                            calculates the number of typed-edits required to turn <i>t1</i> into
                                <i>t2</i> (and vice versa)</p></li>
                    <li><i><keyword>Phone Agreement</keyword></i><p>Phone agreement is calculated as
                            the average of percent phones correct (PPC) between <i>t1</i> and
                                <i>t2</i>:</p>
                        <foreign outputclass="embed-latex">PhoneAgreement(t1,t2) = \frac{PPC(t1,t2)
                            + PPC(t2,t1)}{2}</foreign></li>
                    <li><i><keyword>Consonant Agreement</keyword></i> (optional, default:
                            yes)<p>Consonant agreement is caculated as the average of percent
                            consonants correct (PCC) between <i>t1</i> and <i>t2</i>:</p>
                        <foreign outputclass="embed-latex">ConsonantAgreement(t1,t2) =
                            \frac{PCC(t1,t2) + PCC(t2,t1)}{2}</foreign></li>
                    <li><i><keyword>Vowel Agreement</keyword></i> (optional, default: yes)<p>Vowel
                            agreement is calculated as is calculated as the average of percent
                            vowels correct (PVC) between <i>t1</i> and <i>t2</i>:</p>
                        <foreign outputclass="embed-latex">VowelAgreement(t1,t2) = \frac{PVC(t1,t2)
                            + PVC(t2,t1)}{2}</foreign></li>
                    <li><i><keyword>Diacritic Agreement</keyword></i> (optional, default:
                            no)<p>Diacritic agreement is caculated as the average of percent
                            diacritics correct (PDC) between <i>t1</i> and <i>t2</i>:</p>
                        <foreign outputclass="embed-latex">DiacriticAgreement(t1,t2) =
                            \frac{PDC(t1,t2) + PDC(t2,t1)}{2}</foreign></li>
                    <li><i><keyword>Number Tone Agreement</keyword></i> (optional, default:
                            no)<p>Number tone agreement is calculated as the averager of percent
                            number tones correct (PNTC) between <i>t1</i> and <i>t2</i>:</p>
                        <foreign outputclass="embed-latex">NumberToneAgreement(t1,t2) =
                            \frac{PNTC(t1,t2) + PNTC(t2,t1)}{2}</foreign></li>
                </ul><note>The *Agreement columns are calculated as an average because the
                        <keyword>percent correct</keyword> function is not commutative.</note></p>
            <p>The final row of each table will include an average of each selected metric.</p>
            <p>INSERT EXAMPLE</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
