<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="records">
    <title>Records</title>
    <body>
        <p>Each session consists of a series of records.  A record is, in general, a single uttrance
            from a participant in the session.  Each record contains </p>
    </body>
    <topic id="record_actions">
        <title>Actions</title>
        <body>
            <p>The following session-level actions are available for records.  These actions can be
                found int the <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                </menucascade> window menu and in the toolbar.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="add_record">
            <title>Add New Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Add a new record to an existing session.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Display the record after which you would like to create a new record and click
                            the <uicontrol>New record</uicontrol> button in the top left corner of the
                            <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> or choose the <menucascade>
                                <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                                <uicontrol>New Record</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade> (<userinput>CMD/CTRL+N</userinput>) menu item.</p>
                        <itemgroup>This will create a new record immediately following the selected record.
                            The new record will be visible from the <wintitle>Record Data</wintitle>
                            view.</itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="copy_record">
            <title>Copy Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Copy all visible <wintitle>Record Data</wintitle> information to the clipboard.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Display the record you wish to copy and choose the <menucascade>
                            <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                            <uicontrol>Copy record</uicontrol>
                        </menucascade> menu item (<userinput>Shift+CMD+C</userinput>).</p>
                        <itemgroup>All visible tiers will be copied to the clipboard, with tier names and
                            tier data separated by tabs. It can be pasted into the <wintitle>Session
                                Editor</wintitle> as a new record, or into another window.<note>When pasted
                                    into a word processor, you will likely be able to automatically convert the
                                    copied record into a table. Ensure that you use tabs to separate
                                    cells.</note></itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="duplicate_record">
            <title>Duplicate Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Duplicate a record in an existing session.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Display the record which you would like to duplicate and click the
                            <uicontrol>Duplicate record</uicontrol> button in the top left corner of the
                            <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> or choose the <menucascade>
                                <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                                <uicontrol>Duplicate record</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade> (<userinput>CMD/CTRL+D</userinput>) menu item.</p>
                        <itemgroup>This will create a duplicate record immediately following the original.
                            The duplicate record will be visible from the <wintitle>Record Data</wintitle>
                            view.</itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="cut_record">
            <title>Cut Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Copy all visible <wintitle>Record Data</wintitle> information to the clipboard and
                delete current record.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Dispaly the record you wish to cut and choose the <menucascade>
                            <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                            <uicontrol>Cut record</uicontrol>
                        </menucascade> menu item (<userinput>Shift+CMD+X</userinput>).</p>
                        <itemgroup>All visible tiers will be copied to the clipboard, and then the record
                            will be deleted. It can be pasted into the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle>
                            as a new record, or into another window.<note>When pasted into a word processor,
                                you will likely be able to automatically convert the copied record into a
                                table. Ensure that you use tabs to separate cells.</note></itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="paste_record">
            <title>Paste Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Paste a record from the clipboard into the <wintitle>Session
                Editor</wintitle>.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Display the record after which you would like to paste, and choose the <menucascade>
                            <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                            <uicontrol>Paste record</uicontrol>
                        </menucascade> menu item (<userinput>Shift+CMD+V</userinput>).</p>
                        <itemgroup>The record will be created in the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle>
                            directly after the currently visible record.</itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="delete_record">
            <title>Delete Record</title>
            <shortdesc>Delete a record from an existing session.</shortdesc>
            <body>
                <section>From the <uicontrol>Session Editor</uicontrol> window:</section>
                <ol>
                    <li>
                        <p>Display the record that you would like to delete and choose the <menucascade>
                            <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                            <uicontrol>Delete Record</uicontrol>
                        </menucascade> (<userinput>CMD/CTRL+E</userinput>) menu item.</p>
                        <itemgroup>A dialog will appear asking you to confirm that you would like to delete
                            this record and informing you that this action cannot be undone.</itemgroup>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>If you are unsure, click <uicontrol>No</uicontrol>. To continue and delete the
                            record, click <uicontrol>Yes</uicontrol>.</p>
                        <itemgroup>The record will no longer appear in the <wintitle>Record Data</wintitle>
                            view; the next record will be displayed.</itemgroup>
                    </li>
                </ol>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
        
    <topic id="navigate_records">
        <title>Navigate Between Records</title>
        <shortdesc>Navigate between records in the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle>
            window.</shortdesc>
        <body>
            <ol id="steps_dfm_kpt_dh">
                <li>
                    <p>To go to the next record in your session, select the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Next record</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> menu item or click the <uicontrol>right arrow</uicontrol> at the
                        top of the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle>.</p>
                    <itemgroup>Views will update to display information for the next record in your
                        session, and the number of the currently visible record will be
                        displayed.</itemgroup>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>To go to the previous record in your session, select the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Previous record</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> menu item or click the <uicontrol>left arrow</uicontrol>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>To jump to the last record in your session, select the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Last record</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> menu item or click the <uicontrol>right arrow with vertical
                        line</uicontrol>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>To jump to the first record in your session, select the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>First record</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> menu itme or click the <uicontrol>left arrow with vertical
                        line</uicontrol>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>To navigate to a specific record using its number, click on the current record
                        number and type in the desired number.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </body>
    </topic>
    
    <topic id="view_record_list">
        <title>View Record List</title>
        <shortdesc>View a list of records in a session.</shortdesc>
        <body>
            <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
            <ol>
                <li>
                    <p>Click the drop down menu on the left of the <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol> bar
                        and select <uicontrol>Open Record List</uicontrol>, or click within the empty
                        <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol> bar and press <userinput>Enter</userinput>.
                        Alternately, you may enter a search term in the <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol>
                        bar and open a list of only records containing that term.</p>
                    <itemgroup>This will open the <wintitle>Record List</wintitle> view, which
                        shows a list of the records in a session with their <i>Record #</i> and all tier
                        information.<note>To arrange by a column, click on its header. To reorder
                            columns, click and drag their header to the left or
                            right.</note></itemgroup>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Click on any record in the list to navigate to it in the <wintitle>Session
                        Editor</wintitle>.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </body>
    </topic>
    
    <topic id="sort_records">
        <title>Sort Records</title>
        <shortdesc>Sort records in an existing session by start time.</shortdesc>
        <body>
            <section>From the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window:</section>
            <ol>
                <li>
                    <p>Choose the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Session</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Sort records...</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> menu item.</p>
                    <itemgroup>The <wintitle>Sort Records</wintitle> dialog will appear.</itemgroup>
                </li>
                <li><p>Click the <uicontrol>Sort by:</uicontrol> menu and select a tier by which to sort your records.
                    For example, you may sort your records in chronological order (by choosing
                    <uicontrol>Segment</uicontrol>), or alphabetically by their
                    <uicontrol>Orthography</uicontrol>.</p> <itemgroup><note>You may choose up to three tiers by which to sort your records; they will be sorted by the
                        first chosen tier, and then records with the same information in the first
                        tier will be sorted by the next chosen tier, and so forth.</note></itemgroup></li>
                <li><p>By default, records will be sorted in ascending order. To sort in descending order by 
                    any tier, select <uicontrol>descending</uicontrol>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>When you have finished selecting sort options, click <uicontrol>Ok</uicontrol>.
                        If you do not wish to sort records at this time, click
                        <uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol>.</p><itemgroup>The records for the current session will be sorted by the tier(s) you have
                            chosen.</itemgroup>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
