<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="transcript_mapper">
    <title>Transcript Mapper</title>
    <body>
        <p><wintitle>Transcript Mapper</wintitle> allows creation and utlization of an
                <keyword>aligned types database</keyword> to aid with transcribing across multiple
            tiers based on existing data. Alignment data may be imported from existing Phon
            sessions, csv files, or from IPA dictionaries available in the application.</p>
        
        <p>The UI contains three main componenets:<ol id="ol_yhd_1qq_p5b">
                <li><uicontrol>Key tier</uicontrol> combo box; the <keyword>key tier</keyword> is
                    the tier used for lookups within the <keyword>aligned types database</keyword>.
                    By default this is Orthography, but any grouped tier in the session may be
                    used.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Aligned words/morphemes</uicontrol> table; this table displayed the
                    values for the word/morpheme alignment in the current record. The <keyword>key
                        tier</keyword> will always be shown as the first column.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Alignment options</uicontrol> table; this table displayed data from
                    the database which may be used to fill record data.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p>Transcript mapper is intended to be used with partially transcribed data. Information
            from one tier, called the <keyword>key tier</keyword>, is used to lookup alignment sets
            in the database. These sets may then be used to insert values into other tiers in the
            record. To use the transcript mapper:<ol id="ol_rrn_rkx_p5b">
                <li>Select the <keyword>key tier</keyword> from the provided combo box, this should
                    be a tier in the record which contains data.</li>
                <li>Aligned words/morphemes in the current record will be listed in the
                        <uicontrol>Aligned word/morphemes</uicontrol> table. Selecting a row in this
                    table will populate the <uicontrol>Alignment options</uicontrol> table with data
                    contained in the database for the selected word/morpheme in the indicated
                        <keyword>key tier</keyword>. Pressing enter (or right clicking) a row in the
                    Aligned words/morphemes table will display a menu with items to insert/update
                    alignment sets into the current record for all displayed tiers. If the selected
                    alignment set does not currently exist in the database an option to add the
                    alignment will also be presented.</li>
                <li>The <uicontrol>Alignment options</uicontrol> table will display alignment sets
                    available in the database for the currently selected word/morpheme. Selecting a
                    row in this table and pressing enter (or right clicking) will display a menu
                    with items to insert//update specific tiers with types from the database (the
                    number keys 1-9 may also be used to select specific tiers.) Alignment sets may
                    be removed from the database by pressing delete or using the item in the popup
                    menu.</li>
            </ol></p>
    </body>
    
    <topic id="database_actions">
        <title>Aligned Types Database</title>
        <body>
            <p>The <keyword>aligned types database</keyword> is stored in the user's application
                data folder. This database folder is located at <filepath>~/Library/Application
                    Support/Phon/transcriptMapper</filepath> on macOS and
                    <filepath>%APPDATA%/Phon/transcriptMapper</filepath> on Windows. The database
                filename is <filepath>typeMap.atdz</filepath>.</p>
            <p>Database actions are available from the menu displayed when clicking the
                    <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol> button in the toolbar. Initially the
                    <keyword>aligned types database</keyword> is not populated. To import data into
                the database, use one of the actions in the popup menu. When changes to the aligned
                types databse are detected the <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol> button will be shown
                with an asterisk <codeph>'*'</codeph> and a menu item to save the database will be
                    enabled.<note>The aligned types database will be automatically saved when
                    exiting the application if changes are detected.</note><note>A backup of of the
                    database is created when saving, you can find this file in the
                        <filepath>transcriptMapper</filepath> folder named
                        <filepath>typeMap-backup.atdz</filepath>.</note></p>
        </body>
        
        <topic id="save_database">
            <title>Save Database</title>
            <body>
                <p>You may save the database using the appropriate menu item displayed in the
                    database popup menu. The item is only enabled when changes have been
                    detected.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="scan_project">
            <title>Scan Project</title>
            <body>
                <p>The scan project wizard allows for selection of session in the current project,
                    or in another project, for data import to the database. Each aligned
                    word/morpheme set - for all grouped tiers - in the scanned sessions will be
                    added.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="import_csv">
            <title>Import from CSV</title>
            <body>
                <p>Data may be imported from a CSV file.  The first line of the CSV file should
                    contain tier names, while each subsequent line should contain the aligned types
                    to be added to the database. The CSV file should be UTF-8 encoded, with quotes
                    around strings and commas separating values.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="export_csv">
            <title>Export to CSV</title>
            <body>
                <p>The CSV export function will export aligned data for all keys found for the
                    selected key tier. The first line of the CSV file will contain tier names, while
                    each subsequent line will contain aligned types contained in the database.  The
                    file will be UTF-8 encoded, with quotes around string and commas separating
                    values.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="import_dict">
            <title>Import IPA dictionary</title>
            <body>
                <p>IPA dictionaries which implement key iteration may be imported to the
                        <keyword>aligned types database</keyword> (this does not include
                    tranliteration dictionaries.) Each orthography → IPA entry of the IPA dictionary
                    will be added as an alignment set with the tiers 'Orthogrpahy', 'IPA Target',
                    'IPA Actual', and 'Language'. The 'IPA Target' and 'IPA Actual' types will be
                    the same IPA value for the database entry. The 'Language' tier will contain the
                    language code of the dictionary from which the alignment was imported.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="import_database">
            <title>Import Database</title>
            <body>
                <p>This feature is not yet available.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
        <topic id="project_definitions">
            <title>Project TypeMap Definitions</title>
            <body>
                <p>This feature is not yet available.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        
    </topic>
    
    <topic id="tiers">
        <title>Tiers</title>
        <body>
            <p>Tiers displayed in transcript mapper tables may be controlled using the popup menu
                displayed when clicking the <uicontrol>Tiers</uicontrol> toolbar button. Initially
                all grouped tiers in the session are displayed in the order defined in the session
                with the exception that the current key tier will always be the first column. Only
                tiers displayed in the tables will be changed when selecting alignment data to
                insert. It is possible that the database contains tiers which do not exist in the
                session. Missing tiers will be displayed in the menu as options to create the new
                tier. An option to create all missing tiers will also be available.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    
</topic>
