<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_zqx_bnx_qp">
 <title>Pitch Settings</title>
 <shortdesc>Configuring the pitch contour.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <source>http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Pitch__ac____.html; http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Pitch__cc____.html</source>
  </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>Adapted from <xref href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Pitch__ac____.html"
    format="html" scope="external"/> and <xref
    href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Sound__To_Pitch__cc____.html" format="html"
    scope="external"/></p>
  <p>The <wintitle>Pitch settings</wintitle> window can be opened by choosing <uicontrol>Pitch
        settings...</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Praat</uicontrol> menu in the <uicontrol>Speech
        Analysis</uicontrol> view of the <wintitle>Session Editor</wintitle> window. The behaviour
      of the <term>Time step</term> and <term>Pitch floor</term> parameters differ depending on the
      choice of Auto-correlation or Cross-correlation.</p>
  <p>Sound to Pitch (Auto-correlate)</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Time step (s)</b> (standard value: 0.0) </dt>
    <dd> the measurement interval (frame duration), in seconds. If you supply 0, Praat will use a
     time step of 0.75 / (<i>pitch floor</i>), e.g. 0.01 seconds if the pitch floor is 75 Hz; in
     this example, Praat computes 100 pitch values per second. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Pitch floor (Hz)</b> (standard value: 75 Hz) </dt>
    <dd> candidates below this frequency will not be recruited. This parameter determines the
     effective length of the analysis window: it will be 3 longest periods long, i.e., if the pitch
     floor is 75 Hz, the window will be effectively 3/75 = 0.04 seconds long.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <p>Sound to Pich (Cross-correlate)</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Time step (s)</b> (standard value: 0.0) </dt>
    <dd> the measurement interval (frame duration), in seconds. If you supply 0, Praat will use a
     time step of 0.25 / (<i>pitch floor</i>), e.g. 0.00333333 seconds if the pitch floor is 75 Hz;
     in this example, Praat computes 300 pitch values per second. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Pitch floor (Hz)</b> (standard value: 75 Hz) </dt>
    <dd> candidates below this frequency will not be recruited. This parameter determines the length
     of the analysis window: it will be 1 longest period long, i.e., if the pitch floor is 75 Hz,
     the window will be 1/75 = 0.01333333 seconds long. </dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <note>Note that if you set the time step to zero, the analysis windows for consecutive
   measurements will overlap appreciably: Praat will always compute 4 pitch values within one window
   length, i.e., the degree of <i>oversampling</i> is 4.</note>
  <p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><b>Very accurate</b> (standard value: <i>off</i>) </dt>
     <dd> if <i>off</i>, the window is a Hanning window with a physical length of 3 / (<i>pitch
       floor</i>). If <i>on</i>, the window is a Gaussian window with a physical length of 6 /
       (<i>pitch floor</i>), i.e. twice the effective length. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </p>
  
  <p>A post-processing algorithm seeks the cheapest path through the candidates. The settings that
   determine the cheapest path are:</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Pitch ceiling (Hz)</b> (standard value: 600 Hz) </dt>
    <dd> candidates above this frequency will be ignored. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Silence threshold</b> (standard value: 0.03) </dt>
    <dd> frames that do not contain amplitudes above this threshold (relative to the global maximum
     amplitude), are probably silent. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Voicing threshold</b> (standard value: 0.45) </dt>
    <dd> the strength of the unvoiced candidate, relative to the maximum possible autocorrelation.
     To increase the number of unvoiced decisions, increase this value. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Octave cost</b> (standard value: 0.01 per octave) </dt>
    <dd> degree of favouring of high-frequency candidates, relative to the maximum possible
     autocorrelation. This is necessary because even (or: especially) in the case of a perfectly
     periodic signal, all undertones of <i>F</i>0 are equally strong candidates as <i>F</i>0 itself.
     To more strongly favour recruitment of high-frequency candidates, increase this value. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Octave-jump cost</b> (standard value: 0.35) </dt>
    <dd> degree of disfavouring of pitch changes, relative to the maximum possible autocorrelation.
     To decrease the number of large frequency jumps, increase this value. In contrast with what is
     described in the article, this value will be corrected for the time step: multiply by 0.01 s /
      <i>TimeStep</i> to get the value in the way it is used in the formulas in the article. </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><b>Voiced / unvoiced cost</b> (standard value: 0.14) </dt>
    <dd> degree of disfavouring of voiced/unvoiced transitions, relative to the maximum possible
     autocorrelation. To decrease the number of voiced/unvoiced transitions, increase this value. In
     contrast with what is described in the article, this value will be corrected for the time step:
     multiply by 0.01 s / <i>TimeStep</i> to get the value in the way it is used in the formulas in
     the article. </dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
    <p>Display settings:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dot size</dt>
          <dd>Size of pitch dots in display.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
