<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tj1_2nx_qp">
 <title>Spectrogram Settings</title>
 <shortdesc>Configuring the spectrogram.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
   <source>http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Intro_3_2__Configuring_the_spectrogram.html</source>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p> Adapted from <xref
        href="http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/manual/Intro_3_2__Configuring_the_spectrogram.html"
        format="html" scope="external"/><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Max Frequency</i> (Hz) </dt>
          <dd> the range of frequencies to display. The standard is 0 Hz at the bottom and 5000 Hz
            at the top. If this maximum frequency is higher than the Nyquist frequency of the Sound
            (which is half its sampling frequency), some values in the spectrogram will be zero, and
            the higher frequencies will be drawn in white. You can see this if you record a Sound at
            44100 Hz and set the view range from 0 Hz to 25000 Hz. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Window length</i></dt>
          <dd> the duration of the analysis window. If this is 0.005 seconds (the standard), Praat
            uses for each frame the part of the sound that lies between 0.0025 seconds before and
            0.0025 seconds after the centre of that frame (for Gaussian windows, Praat actually uses
            a bit more than that). The window length determines the <i>bandwidth</i> of the spectral
            analysis, i.e. the width of the horizontal line in the spectrogram of a pure sine wave
            (see below). For a Gaussian window, the -3 dB bandwidth is 2*sqrt(6*ln(2))/(π*<i>Window
              length</i>), or 1.2982804 / <i>Window length</i>. To get a `broad-band' spectrogram
            (bandwidth 260 Hz), keep the standard window length of 5 ms; to get a `narrow-band'
            spectrogram (bandwidth 43 Hz), set it to 30 ms (0.03 seconds). The other window shapes
            give slightly different values. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Dynamic range</i> (dB) </dt>
          <dd> All values that are more than <i>Dynamic range</i> dB below the maximum will be drawn
            in white. Values in-between have appropriate shades of grey. Thus, if the highest peak
            in the spectrogram has a height of 30 dB/Hz, and the dynamic range is 50 dB (which is
            the standard value), then values below -20 dB/Hz will be drawn in white, and values
            between -20 dB/Hz and 30 dB/Hz will be drawn in various shades of grey. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Window shape</i></dt>
          <dd> the shape of the analysis window. To compute the spectrum at, say, 3.850 seconds,
            samples that lie close to 3.850 seconds are given more weight than samples further away.
            The relative extent to which each sample contributes to the spectrum is given by the
            window shape. You can choose from: Gaussian, Square (none, rectangular), Hamming (raised
            sine-squared), Bartlett (triangular), Welch (parabolic), and Hanning (sine-squared). The
            Gaussian window is superior, as it gives no <i>sidelobes</i> in your spectrogram (see
            below); it analyzes a factor of 2 slower than the other window shapes, because the
            analysis is actually performed on twice as many samples per frame. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Time step</i></dt>
          <dd> the maximum number of points along the time window for which Praat has to compute the
            spectrum. If your screen is not wider than 1200 pixels, then the standard of 1000 is
            appropriate, since there is no point in computing more than one spectrum per
            one-pixel-wide vertical line. If you have a really wide screen, you may see improvement
            if you raise this number to 1500. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Frequency step</i></dt>
          <dd> the maximum number of points along the frequency axis for which Praat has to compute
            the spectrum. If your screen is not taller than 768 pixels, then the standard of 250 is
            appropriate, since there is no point in computing more than one spectrum per
            one-pixel-height horizontal line. If you have a really tall screen, you may see
            improvement if you raise this number. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Window shape</i></dt>
          <dd> the shape of the analysis window. To compute the spectrum at, say, 3.850 seconds,
            samples that lie close to 3.850 seconds are given more weight than samples further away.
            The relative extent to which each sample contributes to the spectrum is given by the
            window shape. You can choose from: Gaussian, Square (none, rectangular), Hamming (raised
            sine-squared), Bartlett (triangular), Welch (parabolic), and Hanning (sine-squared). The
            Gaussian window is superior, as it gives no <i>sidelobes</i> in your spectrogram (see
            below); it analyzes a factor of 2 slower than the other window shapes, because the
            analysis is actually performed on twice as many samples per frame. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Preemphasis</i> (dB/octave) </dt>
          <dd> determines the steepness of a high-pass filter, i.e., how much the power of higher
            frequencies will be raised before drawing, as compared to lower frequencies. Since the
            spectral slope of human vowels is approximately -6 dB per octave, the standard value for
            this setting is +6 dB per octave, so that the spectrum is flattened and the higher
            formants look as strong as the lower ones. When you raise the preemphasis, frequency
            bands above 1000 Hz will become darker, those below 1000 Hz will become lighter. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><i>Dynamic compression</i></dt>
          <dd> determines how much stronger weak spectra should be made before drawing. Normally,
            this parameter is between 0 and 1. If it is 0 (the standard value), there is no dynamic
            compression. If it is 1, all spectra will be drawn equally strong, i.e., all of them
            will contain frequencies that are drawn in black. If this parameter is 0.4 and the
            global maximum is at 80 dB, then a spectrum with a maximum at 20 dB (which will normally
            be drawn all white if the dynamic range is 50 dB), will be raised by 0.4 * (80 - 20) =
            24 dB, so that its maximum will be seen at 44 dB (thus making this frame visible). </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
