<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="analysis-ppc">
    <title>Percent Phones Correct (PPC)</title>
    <body>
        <p>The PPC analysis will calculate the percent phones/consonants/vowels correct in the
            sampled data.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="report-outline">
        <title>Report Outline</title>
        <body>
            <p>An example table of contents is displayed below. Bold level elements are section
                headers while italic items are one of the tables listed above.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><p><b>Percent Phones Correct (PPC)</b></p><ul>
                        <li>
                            <p><b>Summary</b></p>
                            <ul>
                                <li>
                                    <p><i>All Participants</i></p>
                                </li>
                                <li>
                                    <p><i>IPA Patterns</i></p>
                                </li>
                            </ul>
                        </li>
                        <li><b>Participant 1</b><ul id="ul_vc1_yn2_wmb">
                                <li><i>Summary</i></li>
                                <li><i>IPA Patterns</i></li>
                            </ul></li>
                        <li>… (for each selected participant)</li>
                        <li>
                            <p><b>Listing (All Results)</b></p>
                        </li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="data-preparation">
        <title>Data Preparation</title>
        <body>
            <p>Session data is queried by word for each IPA Target and IPA Actual tuple. Proper
                syllabification and phone alignment is required for accurate results. All
                participants should have unique names/identification numbers and a speaker should be
                assigned to all records.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="parameters">
        <title>Parameters</title>
        <body>
            <p>The PPC report can be restricted to different sets of phones. Several pre-defined
                sets have been defined and are available by using the radio buttons displayed in the
                PPC form (see below.) The following pre-defined report types are available:<ol>
                    <li>Percent Phones Correct - all phones.</li>
                    <li>Percent Consonants Correct - all consonants (i.e., PCC)</li>
                    <li>Percent Vowels Correct</li>
                    <li>Percent Singleton Consonants Correct - singleton consonants. There are three
                        report sub-types available when this option is selected:<ol
                            id="ol_tvk_3ny_mjb">
                            <li>All singletone consonants</li>
                            <li>Singleton onsets</li>
                            <li>Singleton codas</li>
                        </ol></li>
                    <li>Percent Cluster Consonants Correct - cluster consonants. There are three
                        report sub-types available when this option is selected:<ol
                            id="ol_lfj_zny_mjb">
                            <li>All clusters</li>
                            <li>Tautosyllabic clusters</li>
                            <li>Heterosyllabic clusters</li>
                        </ol></li>
                    <li>Percent Correct (custom)</li>
                </ol></p>
            <p>When 'Percent Correct (custom)' is selected a custom <xref
                    href="../phonex/intro.dita">Phonex</xref> expression may be entered to create a
                custom phone set. See <xref href="../phonex/examples/phones.md" format="md">Example
                    Phones Queries</xref> for some useful examples.</p>
            <p>Other parameters:<ol id="ol_qkx_cqy_mjb">
                    <li>PPC-r - phones marked with the distorted diacritic will be considered
                        correct (default: no)</li>
                    <li>Ignore diacritics - ignore diacritics when comparing phones (default:
                        no)</li>
                    <li>Include PPC w/o epenthesis 'PPC (NoEpen)' (see below)</li>
                    <li><xref href="../query/common_query_options.dita#group_options"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="../query/common_query_options.dita#word_options"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="../query/common_query_options.dita#syllable_options"/></li>
                </ol></p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="topic_wgv_ybb_mjb">
        <title>PPC Calculation</title>
        <body>
            <p>PPC is calculated using the following equation:</p>
            <p><foreign outputclass="embed-latex">
                \begin{align} 
                PPC &amp;= \frac{correct}{(correct + incorrect)} \times 100 \\
                    &amp;= \frac{correct}{(correct + deletions + substitutions + epenthesis)} \times 100
                \end{align}</foreign></p>
            <p>If requested a second PPC column which does not include epenthesis may be added to
                the report.  The column will be named 'PPC (NoEpen)'.</p>
            <p><foreign outputclass="embed-latex">\begin{align} PPC\textsubscript{NoEpen} &amp;=
                    \frac{correct}{(correct + incorrect)} \times 100 \\ &amp;=
                    \frac{correct}{(correct + deletions + substitutions)} \times 100
                 \end{align}</foreign>
            </p>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
